Learn Images (#9333)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/learn/images/performance-issues/index.md

tags:
  - images
---

As it stands now, images are the web's biggest assets in terms of both [total transfer size](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/page-weight#fig-8)
and [number of requests](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/page-weight#fig-3) per page. The median webpage's total transfer size is roughly
[2MB, as of June 2022](https://httparchive.org/reports/page-weight), with images alone accounting for nearly half of that. It's no exaggeration
to say that optimizing image requests may be the single biggest performance optimization you can make.

Later, you'll learn how responsive images have evolved to help with the issues created by trying to serve one image for all eventualities.
In this section, discover key performance metrics that relate to images, and how to improve them.

## Deferring image requests

While you're about to learn a number of ways to ensure your image requests are as small and efficient as possible, the fastest image request
will always be the one that never gets made. So, right up front, I want to share what may be the most impactful change you can make to the way
you deliver image assets to your users: the 'loading=”lazy”' attribute.

> '''html
> <img src="image.jpg" loading=”lazy” alt="…">
> '''

Author: ```suggestion
```html
<img src="image.jpg" loading=”lazy” alt="…">
```
```

This attribute ensures that requests for images aren't made until they fall close to the user's viewport, deferring them from the initial
page load—the time when the browser is at its busiest—and removing those requests from the critical rendering path.

Simple as it may be in practice, using this attribute can have a huge positive impact on performance:an image that _never_ falls within
the user's viewport will never be requested, and no bandwidth will be wasted on images that the user will never see.

> There's a catch, however: deferring those requests means not taking advantage of browsers' hyper-optimized processes for requesting
> images as early as possible. If 'loading=”lazy”' is used on 'img' elements toward the top of the layout—and thus more likely
> to be in the user's viewport when the page is first loaded—these images can feel significantly slower to the end user.

Author: ```suggestion
There's a catch, however: deferring those requests means not taking advantage of browsers' hyper-optimized processes for requesting
images as early as possible. If `loading="lazy"` is used on 'img' elements toward the top of the layout—and thus more likely
to be in the user's viewport when the page is first loaded—these images can feel significantly slower to the end user.
```

## Priority hints

> The 'loading' attribute is an example of a larger web standards effort to give developers more power over how web browsers

Author: ```suggestion
The `loading` attribute is an example of a larger web standards effort to give developers more power over how web browsers
```

prioritize requests.

You're likely aware of browsers' [basic approaches to fetch priority](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bCDuq9H1ih9iNjgzyAL0gpwNFiEP4TZS-YLRp_RuMlc/edit#):
for example, a request for an external CSS file in the '<head>' of a document is considered essential enough to block render, while a request for an

> external JavaScript file just above '</body>' will be deferred until render is complete. If the value of a 'loading' attribute on an '<img>' is 'lazy',

Author: ```suggestion
external JavaScript file just above `</body>` will be deferred until render is complete. If the value of a `loading` attribute on an `<img>` is `lazy`,
```
